                               TempleOS Charter

* TempleOS is God's official temple.  Just like Solomon's temple, this is a 
community focal point where offerings are made and God's oracle is consulted.

* God said 640x480 16 color graphics is a covenant like circumcision.  
Children will do offerings.  Think of 16 colors like the Simpson's cartoons.

* God said to use a single audio voice -- a single frequency with waveforms.

* God said His temple must be perfect.  We don't think twice about breaking 
compatibility.

* The vision is the same usage model and niche as the Commodore 64 -- a 
non-networked, simple machine where programming was the goal, not just a
means 
to an end.  However, it is modern, 64-bit and multi-cored.  It is special 
purpose, not general purpose, so some things it will not do.  Also, it's a 
kayak, not a Titanic.

* We do not put any hooks for future changes.  "Perfect" means we always act 
as though it is final, for all time.  Microsoft allowed the Windows BMP file 
format to adapt to the future and it became grotesque.

* Low line count is the highest good, so it is easy to learn the whole thing.
 
Users should see the light at the end of the tunnel.  One file system, for 
example, is better than many file systems.

* There is a limit of 100,000 lines of code for all time, not including 
applications and demos.  Code comments count, however.  3rd party libraries 
are banned because they circumvent the intent of this limit.  The vision is a 
Commodore 64 ROM -- a fixed core API that is the only dependency of 
applications.  Currently, there are 80,543 lines of code.
 
* Minimal abstraction is a goal.  Sheep are fools.  They always respect a 
design that is more complicated than another.  Any genius can make it 
complicated.  Like in physics, it takes a supra-genius to make it simple.

* One platform. x86_64 PC compatibles.

* One driver for each class of device.  Limited exceptions are allowed.  With 
divergent device capabilities, it is a nightmare for user applications and 
what is gained?  A three button mouse is like a leg you cannot put weight on.

* Ring-0-only.  Everything runs in kernel mode, including user applications.

* Full access to everything.  All memory, I/O ports, instructions, and
similar 
things must never be off-limits.  All functions, variables and class members 
will be accessible.  There are no C++ public/private protections and all 
functions, even secondary ones in the kernel, can be called.

* Single-address-map as though paging is not used.  Long mode requires
paging, 
however, so the nearest thing is keeping all memory identity-mapped.

* No networking, so malware is not an issue.

* No encryption or passwords.  Files are compressed, not encrypted.

* Free and public domain.

* 100% open source with all source included.

* Documents are not for printing.  They're dynamic, intended for the screen.

* Just one 8x8 fixed-width font.  No Unicode, just Extended ASCII.

* No multimedia.  Sounds and images will be primarily calculated in
real-time, 
not fetched from storage.


* "Commodore 64" was a trademark of Commodore Business Machines.
* "The Simpsons" is a trademark of Fox.
* "Windows" is a trademark of MicroSoft Corp.
