                                 Booting A PC

When you turn-on (better term is "power-up"!) a computer or do a hardware
rst, 
it starts in the BIOS.  Sometimes, you must change the BIOS boot order to
boot 
stuff.

The BIOS loads a boot sect from CD-ROM or hard disk or whatever.  The boot 
sect runs in 16-bit mode and often loads-in a second file that's bigger if it 
can't be done by just one sect.  It's a safe bet that boot sects are 
hand-coded assembly language  Most boot sects use the BIOS to load-in the 
rest.

Not only do boot sects have a size limit, 512 bytes or 2048 bytes for CD-ROM, 
the files they load have to fit within 640K because they run in 16-bit mode.  
This means they usually can't just load the whole operating system and start 
it running.  I guess some boot loaders, like [::/LT/Doc/Grub.TXZ] Grub, have
a capability of 
switching modes before handing-off ctrl to the operating system.  Anyway, the 
operating system must load the rest of itself.  My [::/LT/OSMain/OSStart.CPZ]
OSMain module is what the 
boot sect loads and I try to put a minimum in it so that it will always fit
in 
640K.  It switches to 32-bit mode, then, to 64-bit mode allowing access to 
more memory.  It loads in the rest of LoseThos.

All the boot related stuff for LoseThos is in the /LT/Adam/Boot directory.

[::/LT/Adam/Boot/InsBoot.APZ] InsBoot.APZ	Installs and patches boot sects
[::/LT/Adam/Boot/BootCD.APZ] BootCD.APZ	CD-ROM Boot sect
[::/LT/Adam/Boot/BootMHD.APZ] BootMHD.APZ	Master HD boot record
[::/LT/Adam/Boot/BootMHD2.APZ] BootMHD2.APZ	Stage 2 master boot loader
[::/LT/Adam/Boot/BootHD.APZ] BootHD.APZ	HD partition boot record

BootCD is the CD-ROM boot sect.  If you are curious on the layout of ISO9660 
CD-ROMs, see [::/LT/Adam/Dsk/DskCDDVD.APZ] DiskCDDVD.APZ.  To make a custom
bootable CD-ROM, look here 
[::/LT/Doc/FileMgr.TXZ,BurnProdu] Bootable CD.

BootMHD is the master boot record for a hard drive.  This goes on block zero.
 
It loads-in BootMHD2 which is stored as a file on a partition, kinda risky
and 
unusual -- most other master boot loaders place stage 2 in a gap that's not
in 
any particular partition.   BootMHD2 displays a menu and will boot a 
partition.  Each partition has it's own partition boot record, the first
block 
of the partition.  BootHD is the boot record for a LoseThos partition.

My boot records don't access directories because that would make them too big 
for one block and would make them depend on a file system layout.  Instead, 
they get patched with the LBA, logical block addresses, to load other stuff.  
To update with a new LoseThos kernel (OSMain), you must create a binary file 
and patch the boot loader so it knows the LBA blocks to load.  Therefore, you 
usually recompile the kernel and update the boot sect at the same time.  
[C:/LT/Adam/Boot/InsBoot.APZ,157] InstallBoot() does this. 
[C:/LT/Adam/Boot/InsBoot.APZ,285] InstallMasterBoot() will install a master
boot 
loader.

With LoseThos , the OSMain module loads the Compiler module so it can process 
start-up scripts and works with srource code from then on.  
[::/LT/OSMain/Adam1.APZ] ::/LT/OSMain/Adam1.APZ is the starting start-up
script.  It processes 
(compiles into memory) the stuff in the /LT/Adam directory and ends by #includ
eing the [HOME/Adam3.APZ] HOME/Adam3.APZ file.

It is possible to reboot without doing a hardware rst.  This is faster.  You 
might do this when working on OSMain or your start-up scripts when you want 
them to take effect.  See [C:/LT/Adam/Boot/InsBoot.APZ,60] Boot().

 <1> (image)
























































