                               TempleOS Charter

TempleOS is God's official temple.  God said to use 640x480 16 color graphics 
and God said to have a single audio voice.  That is just like how He
specified 
cubits in the Bible! 
 
1) TempleOS is ring-0-only, running everything in kernel mode including 
applications.  You have full access to memory, I/O ports, instructions, etc. 
at all times, because that's fun.

2) TempleOS will always identity-map memory in a single-address-map 
configuration.  (Virtual addresses are always kept equal to physical
addresses 
with a single map for all tasks on all cores.)  It's as though paging is not 
used.

3) TempleOS will always be for one platform -- x86_64 PC compatibles.

4) TempleOS will never have networking, so malware is less of an issue.

5) TempleOS will always have one video mode, 640x480 by 16 colors, unless
that 
mode becomes unavailable on computers in the future.

6) TempleOS will always just have PC Speaker sound.

7) TempleOS will always be free.  I might sell applications, support, or, 
possibly, do adware.

8) TempleOS will always be 100% open source with all source included, unless 
device drivers or something can only be included with non-disclosure 
agreements.

9) All function args and returns will be 64-bit.  No plans for C++.

10) TempleOS documents are not for printing.  They're dynamic and intended
for 
the screen.  There will always be just one font, a fixed-width font.  No 
Unicode, just ASCII.

11) TempleOS is not for multimedia.  Games will be created by programmers,
not 
artists.  Sounds and images will be, primarily, calculated in real-time, not 
fetched.

12) All functions, variables and class members will be accessible.  There are 
no C++ public/private protections and all functions, even secondary ones in 
the kernel, can be called.

13) **Backward compatibility is NOT guaranteed.**  You are safest working
with JIT 
compilation instead of AOT binaries because I can add members to classes, 
reorder members in classes, add default args to existing functions, change #de
fine values, etc. all without breaking compatibility.
