                              Linux TSZ Utility


TSZ [-ascii] filename

Will uncompress a single file from Linux.  The -ascii flag will convert the 
irregular TempleOS ASCII 5 and ASCII 31 characters to spaces.  (ASCII 5 is 
used to mark the cursor pos and ASCII 31 is used for shifted space characters 
and will cause problems unless you convert them.)


                             Windows TSZ Utility

TSZ is a Windows cmd line program which will assist transferring files from 
TempleOS to Windows.  It will also uncompress TempleOS files you have gotten 
to Windows.  There are three ways to get files from TempleOS to Windows --
via 
CD-ROM, a FAT32 partition or via a "file partition" you have created with TSZ 
on a Windows partition.


TSZ -expand [-ascii] dirname:

will uncompress all TempleOS files with names ending in ".Z" in a Windows 
directory and in all subdirectories.  The -ascii flag used in combination
will 
convert the irregular TempleOS ASCII 5 and ASCII 31 characters to spaces.  
(ASCII 5 is used to mark the cursor pos and ASCII 31 is used for shifted
space 
characters and will cause problems unless you convert them.)  Note: If you 
pick names not ending in ".Z", they will not need to be uncompressed.  You
can 
[C:/TempleOS/Adam/Dsk/Dsk2a.CPP.Z,119] Move() or
[C:/TempleOS/Adam/Dsk/Dsk2a.CPP.Z,91] Copy() them to a name not ending in
".Z" and they will be stored 
uncompressed.

allocated by Windows and located by TempleOS, and if you don't mess with
them, 
you can use them to transfer files between TempleOS and Windows.  This is a 
little risky.  It's pretty safe if you create this file on a partition 
dedicated for this purpose.

**WARNING:** Do not run a defrag operation on a partition holding a file 
partition.  If you store files to it after such an operation, you'll ruin
data 
on your hard drive.



* "Windows" is a trademark of MicroSoft Corp.
* "Linux" is probably a trademark owned by Linus Torvalds.
