                              Linux TSZ Utility


TSZ [-ascii] filename

Will uncompress a single file from Linux.  The -ascii flag will convert the 
irregular SparrowOS ASCII 5 and ASCII 31 characters to spaces.  (ASCII 5 is 
used to mark the cursor pos and ASCII 31 is used for shifted space characters 
and will cause problems unless you convert them.)


                             Windows TSZ Utility

TSZ is a Windows cmd line program which will assist transferring files from 
SparrowOS to Windows.  It will also uncompress SparrowOS files you have
gotten 
to Windows.  There are three ways to get files from SparrowOS to Windows -- 
via CD-ROM, a FAT32 partition or via a "file partition" you have created with 
TSZ on a Windows partition.


TSZ -expand [-ascii] dirname:

will uncompress all SparrowOS files with names ending in ".Z" in a Windows 
directory and in all subdirectories.  The -ascii flag used in combination
will 
convert the irregular SparrowOS ASCII 5 and ASCII 31 characters to spaces.  
(ASCII 5 is used to mark the cursor pos and ASCII 31 is used for shifted
space 
characters and will cause problems unless you convert them.)  Note: If you 
pick names not ending in ".Z", they will not need to be uncompressed.  You
can 
[C:/SparrowOS/Adam/Dsk/Dsk2a.CPP.Z,120] Move() or
[C:/SparrowOS/Adam/Dsk/Dsk2a.CPP.Z,91] Copy() them to a name not ending in
".Z" and they will be stored 
uncompressed.


TSZ -make megcnt partitionfilename signnum:

will create a file on a Windows partition and fill it with a signature num 
that can be searched for block-by-block from SparrowOS.  Once some blocks
have 
been allocated by Windows and located by SparrowOS, and if you don't mess
with 
them, you can use them to transfer files between SparrowOS and Windows.  This 
is a little risky.  It's pretty safe if you create this file on a partition 
dedicated for this purpose.


[C:/SparrowOS/Adam/Dsk/Dsk2b.CPP.Z,412] NonNativeScan():

is a SparrowOS cmd which will scan for some blocks created by TSZ and provide 
a block num you can use to specify a "Non-LT file partition".  You can 
recompile OSMain and define this partition or use
[C:/SparrowOS/OSMain/Dsk/DskAddDev.CPP.Z,183] Mount() each time.  You will 
be asked to provide a drive letter and from then on, you just copy files to 
that partition, boot Windows and run TSZ to extract them.


TSZ -extract dstdirname partitionfilename:

will copy all files in a file partition to a Windows directory, making them 
available from Windows.

**WARNING:** Do not run a defrag operation on a partition holding a file 
partition.  If you store files to it after such an operation, you'll ruin
data 
on your hard drive.



* "Windows" is a trademark of MicroSoft Corp.
* "Linux" is probably a trademark owned by Linus Torvalds.
